Open call to new champions program cohort 2025 (#983)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2025-03-10-open-call-champions/index.md

## Why be a mentor?

Mentors play a key role in the rOpenSci program, helping to select, mentor, and inspire those who participate as Champions. 
Mentors will connect their Champions with people, programs, and organizations; will recommend resources, readings, training, and experiences; and will provide feedback on the project they develop.

Mentors will receive mentoring training, and have opportunities to gain experience and skills to perform their tasks. They will receive an annual stipend, be recognized on the rOpenSci website and social media channels, and make new connections through the networks of others who participate.

By mentoring our selected Champions and helping to shape this program, mentors will also be giving back to the rOpenSci community in a great and meaningful way 🙏🏼 .

## How to apply?

The application form must be completed **in Spanish by Wednesday, April 30, 2025.

If you would like to know more about the information needed to complete the form [you can see it on the program's website](https://ropenscilabs.github.io/ChampionsProgram/). 

> * Mentors application form: 

Author: ```suggestion
* [Fill out the Mentors application form](https://airtable.com/appF6OXmxkk8VmR8a/shrZnWDRKxXUEmLRM)
```

> * Champions application form:

Author: ```suggestion
* [Fill out the Champions application form](https://airtable.com/appF6OXmxkk8VmR8a/shrlvgcNz1R4CoaQN)
```

If you have any questions you can participate in the [_Community Call_ to be held on March 12, 2025](/en/commcalls/champions-latino-2025/) where mentors and Champions from previous cohorts will participate and share their experiences in the program.

> In addition, we will have an [application clinic]() on **Tuesday, April 15, 2025**. At this clinic, the program coordinator will be available to answer questions and help applicants complete the application form.

Author: ```suggestion
In addition, we will have an [application clinic](/events/clinica-champions-2025-04/) on **Tuesday, April 15, 2025**. At this clinic, the program coordinator will be available to answer questions and help applicants complete the application form.
```

---
slug: champeons-latin-america
title: 'New rOpenSci Champions Program cohort'
author: Yanina Bellini Saibene
editor: Steffi LaZerte
date: '2025-03-10'
tags:
- comunity
- champions
- multilingual
description: "The call is open for a new cohort of our Champions Program with a focus on Latin America. Apply!"
params:

>   doi: ""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  doi: "10.59350/chtnj-rec16"
```

---

We have great news! The call for applications to be part of the new cohort of our 2025 Program is now open! And for the first time it will be in Spanish!

Our program seeks to identify, recognize and reward people who are leaders in an open science community, research software engineering and the R programming community.  

This year's program is focused on people from Latin America and for the first time will be conducted entirely in Spanish.  The main goal is to foster sustainable research software as a pillar of Open Science in Latin America through capacity and community building.

> The program is an amazing platform to develop your open source project with the support of experts, interact, share and strengthen a network with other people determined to develop open and reproducible science in your part of the world. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This program links Champions with a mentor to provide the opportunity to develop your open source project with the support of experts, and to  interact, share and strengthen your network with other people also developing open and reproducible science in your part of the world. 
```

> The call for applications is now open to apply as a champion or mentor and be part of the global community of people using and developing scientific and open source software.

Reviewer: I think this is a bit repetitive with the above paragraphs?
```suggestion
```

## Who can participate?

We are looking for people who work in STEAM, who are from Latin America, who have a good oral and written command of the Spanish language and who already have knowledge and experience developing with R. 

For those who want to be mentors, it is also important that they are willing to guide and teach other people and work collaboratively. 

> You can see more details about the requirements to participate in each role on our specific program website (in Spanish).

Reviewer: Add a link to the website here.

> ## Why be a champion?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why be a Champion?
```

> Over the course of 12 months, participants receive training, individual mentoring for the development of an open source project, an annual stipend and participate in various community building and strengthening activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the course of 12 months, Champions receive training, individual mentoring in the development of an open source project, an annual stipend, and the opportunity to participate in various community building and strengthening activities.
```
